General Physicians:
They conduct regular patient check-ups of patients, diagnose any ailments, prescribe medications, and counsel them on diet, hygiene, and preventive healthcare.
Pediatricians:
They examine children regularly to assess their growth and development. Pediatricians provide a wide range of services, from preventative health (e.g. immunizations and health screenings) to the diagnosis, assessment, and treatment of serious illnesses and diseases.
General Surgeon:
They treat patients with acute problems in different body areas, such as the digestive tract, skin or abdomen. Some surgeons specialize in specific areas of medicine, like oncology, pediatrics, organ transplant, orthopedics, and trauma. They treat patients with injuries, such as broken bones; and diseases such as cancerous tumors or deformities.
Cardiologist:
Cardiologists are the doctors that prevent, diagnose and treat conditions of the cardiovascular system, which includes the heart and the body's blood vessels. They assess the medical and family history of patients to determine the potential risk for certain cardiovascular diseases and take action to prevent them.
Dentist:
Dentists diagnose and treat problems related with patient’s teeth, gums, and other related parts of the mouth. They promote good dental health and the prevention of dental diseases.
Dermatologists:
Dermatologists treat conditions related to the skin. They study skin and the structures, functions, and diseases related to it. They may also treat disorders related to the hair and nails.
Gynecologist:
A gynecologist treats the overall health of their female patients, treating problems and diseases of the female reproductive system. They are also sometimes certified as obstetricians, who monitor the health of the mother and the fetus during a pregnancy.
ENT Specialist:
ENT Specialists focus on areas related to ear, nose, and throat, and sometimes even ailments related to the neck or the head.
Trueman’s Biology Volume 1 & 2
Objective Biology by Dinesh
Pradeep Publication’s Biology
H C Verma for Physics
NCERT- Physics Part 1 & 2
Modern ABC of Chemistry for Class 11 & 12 (Volume 1 & 2)
Arihant Organic Chemistry
Morrison and Boyd Organic Chemistry
Emotional Intelligence (EQ)
Biology
Zoology
Botany
French
Material science engineering
Math
Biology
Chemistry
English
Neuroscience
Biology
Human Physiology
Biochemistry
Psychology
Nursing
English