o pursue B. Sc. nursing the candidates should have minimum eligibility criteria, having completed 10+2 with Physics, Chemistry, and Biology as mandatory subjects. One can get admission into the B. Sc. nursing course by appearing in several entrance exams held between April-June. Indian B.Sc. nursing degree is widely accepted throughout the globe since the course teaches nursing science along with the essence of humanities.
BSc nursing is a graduate-level course in Nursing and covers all the important aspects of nursing. The course is aimed at imparting the thorough knowledge and know-how basics of the profession. As the profession directly involves in taking care of patients, thus the course has to be rigorous. Below is the list of subjects that are taught during the course.
Anatomy
Physiology
Biochemistry
Nutrition
Nursing Foundation
Pharmacology
Sociology
Pathology and Genetics
Medical-Surgical Nursing
Community Health Nursing
Psychology
Communication and Educational Technology
Microbiology
Midwifery and Obstetrical Nursing
Introduction to Computer
English
Nursing Research and Statistics
Management of Nursing Services and Education
Child Health Nursing
Fundamentals of Nursing
First aid with applied Sciences and Pharmacology
Psychiatric Nursing
Operation Theatre Technique
BSc Nursing freshers have plenty of options in hand right after completing their graduation. They can start their career in nursing by joining private/government hospital or as a tutor in some institute. Below are the job profiles which BSc Nursing graduates can join as:
Nurse
Home Care Nurses
Nursing Assistant
Nurse - Nursery School
Junior Psychiatric Nurse
Ward Nurse & Infection Control Nurse
Nursing Assist Supervisor
Nursing Tutor
Nursing Educator
Home Care Nurses
Nursing Assistant
Nurse - Nursery School
Nurse & Patient Educator
Junior Psychiatric Nurse
Nurse Manager
Ward Nurse & Infection Control Nurse
BSc Nursing Salary
In first year there's: nursing foundation, anatomy and physiology, microbiology, psychology, biochemistry and nutrition.
In second year there's: medical surgical nursing-1, community health nursing, pharmacology, genetics and pathology, sociology, and communication and education technology.
In third year there's: medical surgical nursing-2, child health nursing, mental health nursing, nursing research and statistics, obstetrics and gynaecology.
In fourth year there's: nursing research and statistics, obstetrics and gynaecology, and community health nursing.
Foundation of Nursing: In this we study about the basic procedures and terminology of nursing.
Anatomy and physiology: The study of human body organs and their functions.
Microbiology: The study of Microorganisms.
Nutrition: The study of nutrients
Community Health Nursing: The study of diseases or malnutrition in community.
Biochemistry: The study of chemical reactions in body.
Pharmacology: The study of drugs.
Sociology: The study of society.
Psychology: The study of human behavior.
Psychiatric: The Study of Mental disorders.
Medical-surgical Nursing: The study of Disorders (Physical), Their medical and surgical treatment and Nursing management.
Communication and Education technology: In this we study how to communicate and learn about teaching aids.
Obstetrics and gynecology: Deals with delivery process.
Child health nursing: Deals with the care of newborn and children.
Research and stats: In research we conduct research in community and in stat there are basic calculation formulas of dose.